Open Letter to Summer Glau: Don't be Afraid of Being Criticised; Try to be
criticised as much as possible!

Previously on /r/SummerGlau , I asked why Summer isn't more active online and
received two answers:

1. That she is clueless around electronic devices. I know for a fact that
it's no longer true because people reported her to have been emailing some of
her fans in the past, and also she had a private facebook account (that was
repetitively cracked). People like Summer can change and gain new abilities.

2. That she is afraid of being hurt and offended from online critics, in part
due to her history as a professional ballerina-wannabe.

Now assuming #2 is true let me give an important ammendment to what I
previously said about handling criticism. What I realised after crossing over
several sources, is that one should
[Encourage criticism and try to be offended](http://shlomif.wikia.com/wiki/Encourage_criticism_and_try_to_get_offended)
because that is a clear indication that the critique uncovered a grain of
truth, which you refuse to admit but should and because every great truth
once started as a blasphemy.

I eventually identified men (and more commonly - women) who don't associate
with people who are critical of them and make them hurt as being intellectually
immature, and wish to live in a "lala-land" where they are always right and
never get hurt. Arguably, I exhibited similar symptoms up to a few weeks ago,
but I no longer do. Neither should summer - and nor should you.

Like they say in The Sound of Music - "Climb Every Mountain":
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EoCPuhhE6dw , and like the Klingon warriors say
“It's a good day to die.”.

Getting offended is not a good reason to prevent Summer from getting the good
publicity from interacting with fans in social media venues, and in fact she
should now understand that becoming offended allows one to grow as a human
being so it's a win-win situation.

----

I expect this post may be downvoted considerably, but
practicising what I preach, I care more about being honest, sincere, and
speaking my mind than I do about getting fanboyism. It should have been said
here, so I have said it.

Love (♥♥♥) Summer! Happy Hacking! Hackers/Action heroes of the world - unite!
