So, who the hell is Qoheleth?

Plan for an Illustrated (images/videos/etc.) screenplay.

It is titled "So, who the hell is Qoheleth?"

And it is about the guy who wrote https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Ecclesiastes shortly after he finished writing it and publicised it?

Now i imagined him being called Yoseph (or Iosephus in Greek) and he was a Jew who lived in Damascus, around ~300 B.C. . He was young (18 y.o - maybe even less); unmarried and a virgin.

One day he enters a bet in which he tries to prove that he can write a worthy work of philosphy.

And he eventually produces the scroll - after about a month or two of work.

He wrote it originally in Hebrew, but recited it in Greek and Aramaic.

Well, maybe also hebrew and other langs.

Elench: anyway, he gets a standing ovation and people donate to him like crazy (back then philosophers were a kind of entertainers).

He was under constant pressure to get married already.

So he gives a few reruns.

And pretty soon the whole of Damascus is obsessed with him and his scroll.

And all the single girls want him for themselves.

Which drives him mad because pre-marital sex was considered non-kosher.

And he believes in intimacy.

At the start of the screenplay he gets asked "So who the hell is Qoheleth?" in
Aramaic.

Where "is" resembles "jehovah" a lot there.

Because yihiyeh is present/future.

So he says it could be King Solomon or someone else.

Some people thought that jehovah meant "He who is/will be"

So the guy who asked him that who's also Jewish tells him that while his
scroll was blasphemous, it brought a lot of "respect" to Jews.

And then he (Josephus, who is also the narrator) tells how every girl wants him
and they see lots of girls staring and lusting him.

Then he needs to pass through a group of three attractive Egyptian girls, and
he reflects on the fact that they are widely considered to be the most
desirable and beautiful girls back then. So he tells himself to stay strong
and to be non-chalant, and he goes through them only to hear them say
«A good name is better than good oil» (
http://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/7-1.htm ) in perfect Aramaic, which causes
him to cry “Oh, God help Me!” out loud, and feel bad.

And then one of the Egyptian girls tells him:

<<<
Egyptian Girl #1: Hey, Josephus?

Josephus: Yes?

Egyptian Girl #1: I'm sorry, we were just teasing. You must get that a lot.

Josephus: That I do.

Egyptian Girl #1: I can feel for you. Anyway, we loved your "Qoheleth" thing
and we memorised the whole thing. It's awesome.

Josephus: Yes, most people say that.

Egyptian Girl #1: Listen my name is $NAME, I live in $LOCATION, and I'm still
unmarried. So, if you’re interested…

Josephus: Thanks for the offer, I’ll consider it.

Egyptian Girl #1: Thanks! My oldest brother is also infatuated with your
scroll, and I’m sure he’ll agree to the marriage.

Josephus: You know you’ll have to convert to Judaism?

Egyptian Girl #1: Yes, I’m cool with that.

Josephus: Thanks, I’ll consider it.
>>>

Josephus leaves the scene encouraged, and later on is approached by a girl who
wears a hood, who requests that he follows her and tells him that she can pay
him generously for his time. He can see through the hood that her face is pale
and that she has sunburns. She takes him to a restaurant which is shaded,
and there are two other girls there: one blonde and the other with
red/orange coloured-hair. They are https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Celts .

The other girl pulls down her hood, and she is blonde as well.

<<<
Celeste: Hello Josephus, thanks for coming to meet us. We are three Celtic
girls from the village near the salt mine in the alps. We wanted to travel
all the way to Alexandria, but given our sunburns, I guess that’s not going
to happen.

+++: My Greek name is Celeste. This is Selina, and Alexis. Will you care for
some wine or grape juice? Kosher of course, not that we’ll ever willingly
drink the non-kosher excuses for them ever again.

Josephus: Nice to meet you all. I wish there was something I could do to
prevent or fight these sun-burns of yours, but unfortunately, our
practice of medicine is not so advanced. In general, we believe you should
stay in the shade, and get plenty of fluids.

+++: From what I read about your people, you tend to be predomintaly blond,
and I also notice that Selina is a redhead. Is it common there?

Celeste: Oh, yes, quite common. From what we noticed, among Jews it tends
to be very rare.

Josephus: Yes, King David was reportedly a "Reddish and with beautiful eyes"
( http://biblehub.com/1_samuel/16-12.htm ), which indicates that back when
the scripture was written, it was notable, but not unthinkable.

+++: Anyway, right now, I only have two Jewish redhead relatives: my cousins
- a boy and a girl.

Celeste: And what happened to them.

Josephus: Oh, what happened to the girl cousin is a really interesting story.
See: there's this other girl - Greek, black hair, brown eyes, bronze skin -
actually she's the younger sister of the guy who challenged me to write the
scroll - and a very rebellious character. She’s been making a lot of
philosophers here angry with her offputting comments, and nearly got herself
killed or injured several times.

Selina: “Nearly”… “nearly” is the key word.

Josephus: Yes, possibly. Anyway, although certainly pretty, I’ve known far
more beautiful girls here, but, but… men go mad over her! She’s been courted
by princes and by the richest merchants, and… philosophers wrote many love
songs praising and idealising her beauty. And that bitch doesn’t accept any
of her suitors.

+++: And so did my good Greek friend, Alexander, who started by writing
some poems to her which I didn’t like, and told him why. So he ended up
improving slowly but surely, until he wrote a truly great poem to her, and
people loved it.

+++: Then Horkenea — that’s her name — told him, while crying, that she
loved the song, but that she still is not going to marry him.

Alexis: The Bitch!

Josephus: My thoughts exactly. Anyway, he was very down for a long while,
so I decided to introduce him to my redhead cousin - her name’s Elishevah
- hoping it’ll cheer him up. He ended up liking her and he wrote a hack
of that song as a love song to her, and she ended up falling in love with
him, and he converted to Judaism and married her, and she’s now pregnant
with their first born, and he writes more songs about her. Very good ones.

Celeste: And Horkenea is still single?

Josephus: Yes! And people are still crazy over her.

+++: Anyway, can you share some details about your trip? I never ventured
a long way past Damascus.

Celeste: Sure! It was very interesting.
