I'll give my own account: I learned HTML from an article on an Internet
magazine that my father bought in the States, back in 1995. It taught some
basic HTML tags and taught to use the "view source" feature. Using it,
I was able to hack on some basic HTML. In 1996, I received a job working
for Cortext web-design. Cortext were one of the first web-design shops in
Israel, and back then when the bubble started, we had a lot of work.
I quickly learned Perl, Unix and more HTML, and even got some money in
return. Back then Perl was the only real option for writing web applications
in, and Windows was not even remotely ready for hosting web-servers yet.

(Incidentally, many of today's Perl mongers admit to have passed through
Cortext sometime.)

I later on left Cortext, and started working for Smart-Link that developed
software-based modems (or "winmodems" as they became known). There I wrote
some web applications, and started working on a site which I hosted on the
IIS server of the company, and hardly anyone knew about it.

After the latter company, I began my 6.5 years study of Electrical Engineering
in the Technion. I moved my site from the company's web site to its new
location at http://t2.technion.ac.il/~shlomif/ , where I happily maintained
it as a set of static HTML pages. Later on, I received an account on
vipe.technion.ac.il, and since I had more space there, I hosted some of the
site there too. Afterwards, when learning Website Meta Language
( http://thewml.org/ ) for a Technion project, I started using it for all
my site. Most of what I did was copying a previous site and adapting it to
the new site. While in the Technion I also learned CSS, much more Perl,
the HTML standards, XHTML, XML, security, more Linux and UNIX and many other
web and non-related technologies. Most of these, I learned on my own.

I also started webmastering other sites - some for my projects or interests and
others for the Israeli FOSS community.

Eventually, I created my own Content Management System -
http://web-cpan.berlios.de/latemp/ - based on Website Meta Language that
extracted the common elements of writing static HTML sites.

Right now, I'm maintaining my own site - http://www.shlomifish.org/ - and
some other sites. I have a B.Sc. in Electrical Engineering from the
Technion, and I know ANSI C, have experience with some Assemblers, C++ to some
extent, many other languages and technologies, and am interested in the
history of computers, software management, software engineering, theoretical
or semi-theoretical Computer Science, and the philosophy of computers. As such,
I believe I am a bit over-qualified to be a common web worker, but still
find a lot of value in working on my sites, blogging, editing wikis, etc.
Even if I'm a philosopher ^W essayist ^W blogger and a writer of stories,
and funny bits, I still need to stay current with current trends.

I find the Internet and the Web to have been very exciting revolutions. The
bubble burst made people rethink the "Web 1.0"/"Web 0.9" internet of that time,
and what survived from it became a better, more sustainable web. Most of the
sites I surf to today, are much better looking, more standard, function better,
and are less intrusive than most of the sites I recall back then. The
user-generated content also seems to be working. As Paul Graham points out,
the traditional media does not compete against the average or median "blogger"
, but against the top 1% or less, which tend to be very good.

I believe that despite a lot of hype about XML, AJAX, web-based applications
etc., the desktop as we know it is not going to disappear completely. Many
people when seeing cutting-edge GNU/Linux desktop applications (Windows' ones
tend to suck, and I have little experience with Mac OS X), are so impressed
that they never want to switch back. For example, KDE's KMail is still much
better  than gmail.com which sucks pretty badly. And naturally not everything
gives way to the web very easily: embedded software, server software, in-house
software, system administration scripts and systems.

Recently I've become a bit annoyed by people who are clueless to some extent,
with some dogmas who tend to feel rather than know. Here are some examples:

1. One programmer I talked with believed that all the pages she outputs
should be properly indented (with tabs, nonetheless) so people can view the
source and learn. With all due respect, while I don't put all my pages on
one line, I don't care too much for that, because it bloats the size, and
generally is the wrong way to learn HTML. People should start with a good
tutorial (like http://www.htmldog.com/ ), and then proceed by building simple
sites, reading books and asking questions.

They can eventually use "view source" on sites they trust, but if so should
be clueful enough to pipe them through indent, or use the Firefox developer
tools.

2. One girl who does web-mastering, believed that http://www.tapuz.co.il/
was Web 2.0 before Web 2.0 happened. OK, it has a lot of user-created content,
but is otherwise a non-standard JavaScript hell, full of annoying ads (flash,
animated GIFs, etc.), has many security holes, and does not accept HTML markup
as input (instead it has a dysfunctional Hebrew-based markup). And she still
believes they are all OK. So it's not "Web 2.0" by a long shot.

I think she has the right attitude and will learn more as times goes by, but
it's still annoying.

3. I know many PHP programmers who don't think it is an option to pre-generate
static HTML pages (not even with PHP) and want to use PHP for everything that
requires a common look and feel.

4. There are too many "Everything-except-Java/PHP/Python/Ruby-whatever-sucks",
"Perl is dying", "Perl is line-noise", "MySQL cannot scale", "PHP/Perl/Python
cannot scale", "Perl/PHP/whatever is slow", "You're sure to fail if you're
using Perl" etc. people. Lots of attitude, lots of myths, too few facts and
often a lot of counter evidence.

-----------------

Despite all that, I feel that the web is in a better state than ever. With
Google, the Wikipedia and other similar resources, one can easily find what
he's looking for much more easily. I can no longer imagine my life without
the Internet, the Web, Google and Wikipedia. There are many interesting blogs
and blog entries around. While news sites and aggregators often post a lot
of useless junk, that shouldn't have deserved any attention, or a lot of small
pips about "hot" trends (GPLv3, OLPC, Vista, etc.), you can still find a lot
of good things when you're looking for them.

Some of the blogs I read have deteriorated. I used to think that I blog for
myself, but recently decided to make sure to blog about things of general
interest, but very diverse ones. Most of the videos on YouTube are junk,
but I've been referred and was able to find some very nice ones, including
many original ones.

As you may well know, some trends "threat" the Net: the "Digital Millenium
Copyright Act" and friends, lawsuits, net neutrality, bad security, spam,
censorship, patents, etc. However, I believe they all have very good and simple
solutions, and there's no way the good guys are not going to win, while the
bad guys either convert to good guys, or else find that they actually like
the new Internet order just as well, or even better.

In a way, I'm still a bit distressed that I haven't become as famous,
as I believe I deserve to be. I am well-known in some circles, at least to the
people who familiarise themselves with the community, but otherwise a
relatively obscure hacker/essayist/writer. There are some reasons due to
which I believe I have not become as well known as I could have been, so
there are some things I'd like to change.

Using Website Meta Language and Latemp, and Perl 5 are still my preferred
technologies after all these years. I know Perl 5 is not perfect, but
it's still one of the best tools for this job (if not the very best due to
CPAN, its portability, etc.), I love it, I love its community and culture,
and I also invested a lot of time in learning it. And despite all the
Web 2.0-craze, I'm still a big fan of static HTML (but dynamically-generated)
sites. This is because I find them to require the least maintenance hassle,
while still looking and behaving great.

So it's been a fun 11 or 12 years since I first started using the web (and
more when I started using the Internet). I feel I and other people around me
have learned a lot. In a way, I feel that some people, even some with
aspirations to be hackers (in the
http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html sense) did not learn as much
as they could because they lacked the right attitude or were too
closed-minded about many things.

--------------

Sorry for the long message - I hope you enjoyed it in any case. I didn't have
the time to write a shorter one.

Cheers,

    Shlomi Fish
